README.md, before:

# HuntingRestriction

![Image](https://i.imgur.com/buuPQel.png)

Update of MarvinKoshs mod
https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1204146321
with permission.

- Added setting for the "move in close on sleeping animals" behaviour

![Image](https://i.imgur.com/pufA0kM.png)

	
![Image](https://i.imgur.com/Z4GOv8H.png)

Hunters will consider the current conditions before and during hunting.
	
Things which affect the decision to hunt:

Toxic fallout
Distance to target
Target's size (big or small game)
Whether the target is a predator (likely to attack back) and whether they are sleeping
Their own needs (food and rest)
Their own movement efficiency
Their own eyesight
Outdoor temperature
Current stocks of edible nutrition

If some of these in combination would make hunting more dangerous or much less efficient or negatively affect their mood, the hunter will skip that target or the job entirely. The reason why will be listed on the right-click menu.

In particular, if stocks of food are low, hunters will ignore their needs in favour of increasing the food stock level.

Hunters with sight worse than 55% will not do any hunting even if they are assigned.


Things which affect the distance they will try to maintain when shooting:

In previous versions, hunters would choose a range from the target which was an arbitrary percentage of the weapon's maximum range. In this version they will choose a range which suits the weapon they have in hand.
If the target is not currently downed and would explode on death, the hunter will potentially add an extra four tiles of safety range to account for the target moving towards the hunter.
Weather (fog in particular) reduces the distance.
The Trigger Happy trait reduces the distance a bit as well.
If the target is asleep, the hunter will move to the same close range they would if an animal is downed.

There is an option in the mod settings menu for Hunting Restriction called "Haul hunting targets that explode." By default it is unchecked. Leaving this unchecked means that you will need to have another pawn beat out the fire around and on a boomalope or boomrat corpse before it can be collected. Or by checking this option, hunters will do as they do in vanilla and potentially catch fire while retrieving their kill.

New! There are options to enable melee hunting for various sizes of game (big, medium, or small) and to enable hunting predators (turned off by default). Note that your hunter's fight or flee setting will still apply when the hunted animal fights back.


[Version 1.2.3]

**Translatable.**

**Please ask me before re-uploading this mod.**

## Don't comment asking when the mod will update.


Comments regarding mod updates have become a nuisance. I can understand that people get excited and post before they think or read, but I have https://twitter.com/marvinkosh]social media, go and check there to see if I have posted about RimWorld. You will be saving me a lot of time.

http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=953084305]Go to the Alpha 17 version.

Go to Ludeon Forums for more information and direct download links: https://ludeon.com/forums/index.php?topic=30508.0

If you like this mod, why not consider looking at some of my http://steamcommunity.com/id/marvinkosh/myworkshopfiles/?appid=294100]other mods?

![Image](https://i.imgur.com/PwoNOj4.png)



-  See if the the error persists if you just have this mod and its requirements active.
-  If not, try adding your other mods until it happens again.
-  Post your error-log using https://steamcommunity.com/workshop/filedetails/?id=818773962]HugsLib and command Ctrl+F12
-  For best support, please use the Discord-channel for error-reporting.
-  Do not report errors by making a discussion-thread, I get no notification of that.
-  If you have the solution for a problem, please post it to the GitHub repository.


https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/changelog/2314356124]Last updated 2023-08-06

Commit message:

Mod updated for 1.5 and passed autotests

README.md, after:

# HuntingRestriction

![Image](https://i.imgur.com/buuPQel.png)

Update of MarvinKoshs mod
https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1204146321
with permission.

- Added setting for the "move in close on sleeping animals" behaviour

![Image](https://i.imgur.com/pufA0kM.png)

	
![Image](https://i.imgur.com/Z4GOv8H.png)

Hunters will consider the current conditions before and during hunting.
	
Things which affect the decision to hunt:

Toxic fallout
Distance to target
Target's size (big or small game)
Whether the target is a predator (likely to attack back) and whether they are sleeping
Their own needs (food and rest)
Their own movement efficiency
Their own eyesight
Outdoor temperature
Current stocks of edible nutrition

If some of these in combination would make hunting more dangerous or much less efficient or negatively affect their mood, the hunter will skip that target or the job entirely. The reason why will be listed on the right-click menu.

In particular, if stocks of food are low, hunters will ignore their needs in favour of increasing the food stock level.

Hunters with sight worse than 55% will not do any hunting even if they are assigned.


Things which affect the distance they will try to maintain when shooting:

In previous versions, hunters would choose a range from the target which was an arbitrary percentage of the weapon's maximum range. In this version they will choose a range which suits the weapon they have in hand.
If the target is not currently downed and would explode on death, the hunter will potentially add an extra four tiles of safety range to account for the target moving towards the hunter.
Weather (fog in particular) reduces the distance.
The Trigger Happy trait reduces the distance a bit as well.
If the target is asleep, the hunter will move to the same close range they would if an animal is downed.

There is an option in the mod settings menu for Hunting Restriction called "Haul hunting targets that explode." By default it is unchecked. Leaving this unchecked means that you will need to have another pawn beat out the fire around and on a boomalope or boomrat corpse before it can be collected. Or by checking this option, hunters will do as they do in vanilla and potentially catch fire while retrieving their kill.

New! There are options to enable melee hunting for various sizes of game (big, medium, or small) and to enable hunting predators (turned off by default). Note that your hunter's fight or flee setting will still apply when the hunted animal fights back.


[Version 1.2.3]

**Translatable.**

**Please ask me before re-uploading this mod.**

## Don't comment asking when the mod will update.


Comments regarding mod updates have become a nuisance. I can understand that people get excited and post before they think or read, but I have https://twitter.com/marvinkosh]social media, go and check there to see if I have posted about RimWorld. You will be saving me a lot of time.

http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=953084305]Go to the Alpha 17 version.

Go to Ludeon Forums for more information and direct download links: https://ludeon.com/forums/index.php?topic=30508.0

If you like this mod, why not consider looking at some of my http://steamcommunity.com/id/marvinkosh/myworkshopfiles/?appid=294100]other mods?

![Image](https://i.imgur.com/PwoNOj4.png)



-  See if the the error persists if you just have this mod and its requirements active.
-  If not, try adding your other mods until it happens again.
-  Post your error-log using https://steamcommunity.com/workshop/filedetails/?id=818773962]HugsLib or the standalone https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2873415404]Uploader and command Ctrl+F12
-  For best support, please use the Discord-channel for error-reporting.
-  Do not report errors by making a discussion-thread, I get no notification of that.
-  If you have the solution for a problem, please post it to the GitHub repository.
-  Use https://github.com/RimSort/RimSort/releases/latest]RimSort to sort your mods



https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/changelog/2314356124]![Image](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/emipa606/HuntingRestriction?label=latest%20version&style=plastic&color=9f1111&labelColor=black)
